The next topic we're going
to talk about is classes, so
hopefully you are familiar with
classes as they exist in JavaScript.
So you're familiar with
the constructor function.
This is what's called when you invoke
a constructor and you'd say new car.
We're building on our example
of a car here by giving
this class a make model and year.
So in regular JavaScript,
you might not see these.
And you would be able to kind
of set these dynamically,
you can just sort of dropped
properties on an instance.
Because one of the goals
of TypeScript is to,
Any value that you're passing around,
you have to define in some way,
class fields upfront.
And so this looks a little bit verbose.
But you can see there's carved out model.
And then this is the model that
comes in from the constructor.
It looks for both, I promise we're gonna
get to something a little bit later
called puram properties, which reduce
some of the syntax down significantly.
Here effectively we're seeing
make model and year three times.
In the parameters for the constructor and
then in the names of the class
fields actually it's four times and
then twice in each of these
lines here will trim that down.
So you see those words once each and
in a much more abbreviated syntax.
So If we were using regular
JavaScript like we wouldn't get
any help necessarily on whether
we're invoking the right
methods on a class like there
is no activate turn signal here.
Here we're passing in
arguments in the wrong order.
So just like with a function type
a construct signature will validate that
you're passing in that year as the last,
the third parameter here.
So this is TypeScript doing its job right
at the gate just by using class fields.
So, let's talk a little bit about methods.
Methods are something
that lives on a class.
So I'm gonna grab this hunk method and I'm
gonna just drop it right into the class.
And here we're emitting a string
where the number of O's in
the honk is determined by
the argument you pass in.
And here you can see we're
able to create a new car.
And c.honk, take my word for it,
it would return this particular string.
But this is a method now.
This looks a lot like typing a function,
like the freestanding functions
that we've been working with.
Right, the arguments are the same.
Optional fields are the same
if you wanted to do this.
Right, methods are pretty easy, or
pretty much natural extension
from typing functions.
So there's something new that has
arrived in JavaScript recently,
which for me means like the last
several years, static fields.
[COUGH] So I'm gonna grab this,
just another chunk of
stuff we're gonna add to car
I'm gonna put it up here.
I'm just gonna sort these in the way
I would sort it if I were doing
this for real.
Cool, so what just happened?
Well, we have a static field
called the nextSerialNumber.
And when we say it's a static field,
let me just get these out of the way so
I can squeeze something down here.
Look at that I can call nextSerialNumber
on the car class itself,
not an instance of the class,
the car class itself.
So this is what we mean by
the static side of a class.
It's where the constructor lives.
Not instance properties,
this is a class field.
And similarly, this is a class method.
Generate next serial number,
we could call that and
it would invoke nextSerialNumber++.
We just spent a lot of time
talking about this and
In a class method,
what we're looking at here, this
Is of type of car.
Not to be confused with down here
This is not being very useful to me,
it's car in an instance.
Car being the interface describing a car,
right?
See, there it is, car, Up here.
Type of car.
Type of car represents
the static side of the class.
Thats it's as if we're in
there doing the following.
Not new car, but just car.
They're sort of just like things
dangling off of the class itself.
So that's what this is in
a static field context.
Okay, we have a we have
a missing member field here,
which I can go ahead and add real quick.
So we'll just say serial number.
And we'll say car dot
generate serial number.
So, this this we would
say is a class field.
And this is a class field initializer.
So you can think of it as
we're processing this class.
And we go down and we find that field and
we invoke, generate serial number and
assign whatever the return
value is to serial number.
You sure could go down here and
say this.serialNumber =
car.generateSerialNumber.
In fact, it's equivalent to that.
Generally ordering doesn't matter.
We'll look a little bit at ordering later.
Like, when is this run?
When are these things run?
One has to be first and we'll see later.
But the main goal for me when I'm
using field initializers like this.
Is I want stuff out of the constructor.
It's really nice to be able to look
at this one line and say, okay,
there's this thing.
It's a serial number, it starts out
with a value that comes from here.
And, of course,
because this returns a number,
we don't need an explicit type here.
Here we do because you kind of need to
know what those fields are before we start
dealing with this code.
We need to know up front
what they will be.
All right, and here because we have added,
I think I got my example
code here a little wrong.
No, I have it right.
So the thing that's been added to
get label is a little hash tag with
the serial number.
And here we go.
I'm just indicating that it's
going to increment by one,
because we have that static field where
we're holding the next serial number and
it keeps incrementing over and over.
There's another static thing we
can do called a static block.
This is a very recent
addition to Typescript and
to JavaScript, and here's what
that looks like a static block.
So let's imagine that instead
of just saying I'm gonna set my
serial number equal to 100 what I
wanna do is make an API call to
some endpoint that gets me
some serial number data.
And I wanna say the starting serial
number is whatever the API says.
Like it'll tell me where I last left off.
And I'll start counting from there.
So we would delete this for sure.
And this code ends up
initializing that field.
Now, when is this code run?
It's run very shortly after the car
class declaration is processed.
What that means is, you don't have
to create an instance in order for
this to run.
This is run before you
create any instances.
I mean, it's async here.
So I'll say, the fetch is dispatched
before any instances are created.
This needs some sort of readiness
indicator where you would say don't
create any cars until we have
the serial numbers that we start with.
But conceptually,
this is sort of like class level setup
stuff similar to the way this
is set up stuff for an instance.
This could be set up stuff for
the class itself, a static block.
This is not something that
you invoke specifically,
it's just something that
runs immediately after,
this class declaration here
is kind of evaluated, and
you eval this file and
the static block will run.
And I think you can have more than one.
You can have more than one.
So you could have a couple,
they're gonna run from top to bottom, and
you could comment on each of them to
say what's the purpose of this thing?
A very special thing, but it's something
that you could see with the static keyword
and it can live on a class as of very
recent Javascript and Typescript versions.